to the Middle East now and the United
Nations says it is deeply concerned
about a new evacuation order issued by
Israel on Wednesday for the second time
since the start of the war with Hamas
all residents of Gaza City have been
told to leave Israel says it is now
targeting several areas where it
believes the remaining Hamas militants
have
regrouped smoke seen over Gaza City just
hours after Israel dropped lifl lets
telling all its residents to flee
the order sent thousands of Palestinians
on the run
again I'm South because of the blocking
of phone services and the harsh living
conditions and also the lack of food and
water dozens of Palestinians were
reported killed across Gaza over the
past few days after the Israeli Army
once again stepped up its operations
against Hamas Israel says it main goal
is to destroy the remaining
militants we have no interest in harming
civilians in Gaza City or anywhere else
we're trying to get to the terrorists
where the terrorists uh attack from or
where they have uh set up
base the Israeli military says it has
pulled out its forces from Gaza City's
Shaya District after they completed a
two-e operation there some of the
residents went back there to to assess
the damage after the first incursion we
came here and repaired our houses and in
order to shelter ourselves we fixed the
windows and covered them with plastic
sheets we have returned to Shaya after
15 days you can see the destruction they
spared nothing even trees there was a
lot of greenery in this area what is the
guilt of stone and trees and what is my
guilt as a
civilian as Israeli soldiers return to
some area that had previously been
declared clear of Hamas civilians in
Gaza continue their search for a safe
place we're going to cross to Gaza now
and bring in Scott Anderson who's the
director of Affairs in Gaza for unra the
United Nations relief Agency for
Palestinian refugees Scott thank you so
much for making time for us what can you
tell us about the impact of the
evacuation order uh for Gaza City where
are people
heading thank you for having me on this
afternoon and what we've seen is a
population of about 250,000 people in
Gaza City that have been displaced again
uh almost all of that population has
been displaced at least once if not
twice and many is seven or eight times
and they've been on the move trying to
find safety uh they moved West the IDF
has reported they pulled out and they
came back East some have come South uh
we spent a lot of time recently just
trying trying to figure out where people
people are moving uh we do know that
thousands have come across the
checkpoint um into um the south of w
Gaza into the middle area and we're
trying to ascertain the condition of
these people what their needs are while
at the same time trying to figure out
where people are in the north what their
needs are and how we can meet them I
understand that you are in conun at the
moment that's further south than Gaza
City can you tell us what the the
current situation is there I mean are
people there relatively
safe I mean nowhere in Gaza is
completely safe uh we've seen that
unfortunately throughout the nine months
of this conflict where innocent
civilians have suffered from the ongoing
operations uh the ongoing battle between
Israel and Hamas what we're seeing here
in conun is people still trying to
recover from an operation or battle that
took place here toward the end of uh
last year um and people are just trying
to remove Rubble uh find safe places for
them and their family and most
importantly people are trying to access
clean drinking water uh clean drinking
water is one of the bigger challenges
it's very hot here in Gaza at the moment
people don't have access to electricity
or air conditioning and it's very hard
for them to cool off so at a time when
we need more access to clean and cool
drinking water what we have is people
have about 10% of what they should every
day um you know that and the close
living conditions always make us
concerned about about a possible
outbreak of disease but for the most
part people spend all day every day just
trying to their basic needs and keep
themselves and their families safe Scott
Israel has struck several schools in
recent days including of course one run
by your organization in central Gaza the
Israeli military says terrorists were
operating from the unra Run school and
in the unra headquarters in central Gaza
where and I'm quoting here it says
operational activity is continuing could
you give us your response to that
accusation yeah certainly I mean we've
been calling for independent
investigations into what's happened at
the installation since the beginning of
the conflict um that's something we
would re reiterate a call for similarly
we've called on all parties to the
conflict to respect the sanctity of un
installations to respect the sanctity of
hospitals um so that people that are
innocent of civilians can seek refuge
and be safe and while the the war
between Israel and Hamas continues
um the only other thing I would offer
about our headquarters is we left there
in October we have not been back since
so it's almost impossible for us to
ascertain if there is any truth to the
allegations or what is happening uh in
Gaza City okay so you can't deny that
there may have been activity in your in
the unra um properties in the unra
buildings I can't State one way or
another because we aren't there we
haven't been north of waza with an
overnight president since October uh
when we left and everyone moved South um
so there's no way to respond to the
allegations uh one way or the other
Scott Anderson andr director of Affairs
in Gaza Scott thank you so much for your
time
today thank you very much bye